# Contributing to OpenTabletop

## Reporting a bug

If you've found a problem with the game, or the game crashes when you try to do
something, then if there isn't already an issue posted for it, please post an
issue on the project's Github page with the bug report template - make sure you
fill in the template with as much information as you can, including how to
reproduce the bug or crash, so we can identify what is going wrong! If possible,
it would also help us a lot if you include any error messages that come up.

## Suggesting a feature

Got an idea of how to make OpenTabletop better? If it hasn't already been
suggested, don't hesitate to open up an issue on the Github page with the
feature proposal template - we want to make the game as good and as accessible
as possible, and you might have an idea that we haven't thought of yet!

## Creating a pull request

If you want to help the project directly, whether it is fixing a bug or
implementing a feature, then feel free to create a fork of the project on Github
and make the changes you want! However, we recommend following these guidelines
for consistency and to make everyone's lives easier:

* If you are writing code in the editor, then make sure your editor is set to
use tabs instead of spaces (this is the default setting).

* If you are creating a script in the editor, make sure you use the "Copyright
Notice" template.

* When creating a fork or a pull request, make sure it is from and to the
`master` branch! Everything is merged onto the `master` branch, which is always
working towards the next minor release. If there is a bug fix that applies to a
previously released version, then it will be cherry-picked from the `master`
branch to that release's branch.

* When you are merging from the project's `master` branch to your fork's branch
(e.g. when there is a merge conflict), then please use `merge` instead of
`rebase`! In the grand scheme of things, this is a relatively small project, and
we want the git history to be intact!

## Submitting assets

If you have made original assets for the game of tabletop games that are in the
public domain, or original assets for the game in general (e.g. textures, sound
effects, music), then please upload them as a `.zip` file in the relevant issue
on Github by drag-and-dropping the file into the comment box! We want as many
tabletop games to be included as possible with the game, but we also don't want
to risk having non-public domain assets in our game, otherwise the creators
might shout at us with money and lawsuits...

## Code of conduct

By participating in the project, you agree to abide by the project's
[code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
